README.md, before:

# Decision Making Under Uncertainty with POMDPs.jl

<!-- julia blue 4063D8
julia green 389826
julia purple 9558B2
julia red CB3C33 -->

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/julia%20academy-POMDPs.jl-4063D8)](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/decision-making-under-uncertainty-with-pomdps-jl)
[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/youtube-POMDPs.jl-CB3C33)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)


Introduction to the [`POMDPs.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaPOMDP/POMDPs.jl) framework and its ecosystem.

<kbd>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps.pdf">
    <img src="./media/cover.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>
</kbd>

<br/>
<br/>

The course covers how to build and solve decision making problems in uncertain environments using the POMDPs.jl ecosystem of Julia packages. Topics covered include sequential decision making frameworks—namely, Markov decision processes (MDPs) and partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs)—running simulations, online and offline solution methods (value iteration, Q-learning, SARSA, and Monte Carlo tree search), reinforcement learning, deep reinforcement learning (including proximal policy optimization (PPO), deep Q-networks (DQN), and actor-critic methods), imitation learning through behavior cloning of expert demonstrations, state estimation through particle filtering, belief updating, alpha vectors, approximate methods (including grid interpolation for local approximation value iteration), and black-box stress testing to validate autonomous systems. The course is intended for a wide audience—no prior MDP/POMDP knowledge is expected.

# Lectures

The lectures can be found on [Julia Academy](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/decision-making-under-uncertainty-with-pomdps-jl) and [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA). They are broken down as follows.

## 0. Introduction

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/introduction-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/yrC2O7T7aKU?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Slides](https://img.shields.io/badge/introduction-slides-9558B2)](https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-0-intro.pdf)

Brief introduction to the content of this course.

<kbd>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-0-intro.pdf">
    <img src="./media/problems-slide.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>
</kbd>


## 1. MDPs: Markov Decision Processes

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/MDPs-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/uHEjez97BvE?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Slides](https://img.shields.io/badge/MDPs-slides-9558B2)](https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-1-mdps.pdf)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/MDPs-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/1-MDPs.jl.html)

Introduction to MDPs using the _Grid World_ problem.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/1-MDPs.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/gridworld_vi_γ.gif"/>
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <img src="./media/gridworld-transition.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 2. POMDPs: Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/POMDPs-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/KDFzObtE6cs?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Slides](https://img.shields.io/badge/POMDPs-slides-9558B2)](https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-2-pomdps.pdf)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/POMDPs-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/2-POMDPs.jl.html)

Introduction to POMDPs using the _Crying Baby_ problem.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/2-POMDPs.jl.html">
    <img src="./media/crying-baby.svg"/>
    <img src="./media/alpha-vectors.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 3. State Estimation using Particle Filtering

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/state%20estimation-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/CRNYgxT39bQ?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/state%20estimation-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/3-ParticleFilters.jl.html)

Using beliefs to estimate the state of an agent through _particle filtering_.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/3-ParticleFilters.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/particle_filter.gif"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 4. Approximate Methods

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/approximate%20methods-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/hv2Vc8cU2YY?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/approximate%20methods-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/4-Approximate-Methods.jl.html)

Approximating a continuous space using grid interpolation and value function approximation.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/4-Approximate-Methods.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/mountaincar.gif"/>
    <img src="./media/discretized-grid.svg"/>
    <img src="./media/mountaincar-value-policy.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 5. Deep Reinforcement Learning

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/deep%20RL-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/V1Py5AgTL7g?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/deep%20RL-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/5-Deep-Reinforcement-Learning.jl.html)

Introduction to _deep reinforcement learning_ applied to the pendulum swing-up MDP.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/5-Deep-Reinforcement-Learning.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/pendulum_ppo.gif"/>
    <img src="./media/deep-rl-curves.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 6. Imitation Learning

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/imitation%20learning-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/0On85IIuXTA?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/imitation%20learning-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/6-Imitation-Learning.jl.html)

Introduction to _imitation learning_ using _behavior cloning_ of expert demonstrations.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/6-Imitation-Learning.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/pendulum-behavior-cloned.gif"/>
    <img src="./media/behavior-cloned-curves.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 7. Black-Box Validation

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/black&dash;box%20validation-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/Q_38-vw5Pww?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/black&dash;box%20validation-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/7-BlackBox-Validation.jl.html)

Stress testing a black-box system using _adaptive stress testing_.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/7-BlackBox-Validation.jl.html">
    <img src="./media/ast-reward.png"/>
    <img src="./media/ast.png"/>
  </a>
</p>


---
Created and taught by [Robert Moss](https://github.com/mossr).

Commit message:

Updated README with installation instructions

README.md, after:

# Decision Making Under Uncertainty with POMDPs.jl

<!-- julia blue 4063D8
julia green 389826
julia purple 9558B2
julia red CB3C33 -->

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/julia%20academy-POMDPs.jl-4063D8)](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/decision-making-under-uncertainty-with-pomdps-jl)
[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/youtube-POMDPs.jl-CB3C33)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)


Introduction to the [`POMDPs.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaPOMDP/POMDPs.jl) framework and its ecosystem.

<kbd>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps.pdf">
    <img src="./media/cover.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>
</kbd>

<br/>
<br/>

The course covers how to build and solve decision making problems in uncertain environments using the POMDPs.jl ecosystem of Julia packages. Topics covered include sequential decision making frameworks—namely, Markov decision processes (MDPs) and partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs)—running simulations, online and offline solution methods (value iteration, Q-learning, SARSA, and Monte Carlo tree search), reinforcement learning, deep reinforcement learning (including proximal policy optimization (PPO), deep Q-networks (DQN), and actor-critic methods), imitation learning through behavior cloning of expert demonstrations, state estimation through particle filtering, belief updating, alpha vectors, approximate methods (including grid interpolation for local approximation value iteration), and black-box stress testing to validate autonomous systems. The course is intended for a wide audience—no prior MDP/POMDP knowledge is expected.

# Installation
1. [Install Julia (we used v1.6.2, other versions should work)](https://julialang.org/downloads/)
1. [Install Pluto.jl](https://github.com/fonsp/Pluto.jl#installation)
1. Clone this repo:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty
    ```
1. From the Julia REPL (`julia`), run Pluto (a web browser window will pop-up):
    ```julia
    julia> using Pluto
    julia> Pluto.run()
    ```
    _Or you can simply run the following in a terminal:_
    ```bash
    julia -E "using Pluto; Pluto.run()"
    ```
1. From Pluto, open one of the `.jl` notebook files located in the `Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/notebooks/` directory—enjoy!

# Lectures

The lectures can be found on [Julia Academy](https://juliaacademy.com/courses/decision-making-under-uncertainty-with-pomdps-jl) and [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA). They are broken down as follows.

## 0. Introduction

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/introduction-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/yrC2O7T7aKU?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Slides](https://img.shields.io/badge/introduction-slides-9558B2)](https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-0-intro.pdf)

Brief introduction to the content of this course.

<kbd>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-0-intro.pdf">
    <img src="./media/problems-slide.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>
</kbd>


## 1. MDPs: Markov Decision Processes

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/MDPs-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/uHEjez97BvE?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Slides](https://img.shields.io/badge/MDPs-slides-9558B2)](https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-1-mdps.pdf)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/MDPs-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/1-MDPs.jl.html)

Introduction to MDPs using the _Grid World_ problem.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/1-MDPs.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/gridworld_vi_γ.gif"/>
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <img src="./media/gridworld-transition.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 2. POMDPs: Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/POMDPs-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/KDFzObtE6cs?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Slides](https://img.shields.io/badge/POMDPs-slides-9558B2)](https://github.com/mossr/julia-tufte-beamer/blob/julia-academy/pomdps.jl/julia-academy-pomdps-2-pomdps.pdf)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/POMDPs-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/2-POMDPs.jl.html)

Introduction to POMDPs using the _Crying Baby_ problem.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/2-POMDPs.jl.html">
    <img src="./media/crying-baby.svg"/>
    <img src="./media/alpha-vectors.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 3. State Estimation using Particle Filtering

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/state%20estimation-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/CRNYgxT39bQ?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/state%20estimation-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/3-ParticleFilters.jl.html)

Using beliefs to estimate the state of an agent through _particle filtering_.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/3-ParticleFilters.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/particle_filter.gif"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 4. Approximate Methods

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/approximate%20methods-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/hv2Vc8cU2YY?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/approximate%20methods-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/4-Approximate-Methods.jl.html)

Approximating a continuous space using grid interpolation and value function approximation.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/4-Approximate-Methods.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/mountaincar.gif"/>
    <img src="./media/discretized-grid.svg"/>
    <img src="./media/mountaincar-value-policy.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 5. Deep Reinforcement Learning

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/deep%20RL-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/V1Py5AgTL7g?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/deep%20RL-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/5-Deep-Reinforcement-Learning.jl.html)

Introduction to _deep reinforcement learning_ applied to the pendulum swing-up MDP.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/5-Deep-Reinforcement-Learning.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/pendulum_ppo.gif"/>
    <img src="./media/deep-rl-curves.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 6. Imitation Learning

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/imitation%20learning-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/0On85IIuXTA?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/imitation%20learning-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/6-Imitation-Learning.jl.html)

Introduction to _imitation learning_ using _behavior cloning_ of expert demonstrations.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/6-Imitation-Learning.jl.html">
    <img src="./notebooks/gifs/pendulum-behavior-cloned.gif"/>
    <img src="./media/behavior-cloned-curves.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>


## 7. Black-Box Validation

[![Julia Academy](https://img.shields.io/badge/black&dash;box%20validation-lecture-CB3C33)](https://youtu.be/Q_38-vw5Pww?list=PLP8iPy9hna6QPqk4N8eBk0oXzLrLbOtTA)
[![Pluto](https://img.shields.io/badge/black&dash;box%20validation-notebook-389826)](https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/7-BlackBox-Validation.jl.html)

Stress testing a black-box system using _adaptive stress testing_.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://htmlview.glitch.me/?https://github.com/JuliaAcademy/Decision-Making-Under-Uncertainty/blob/master/html/7-BlackBox-Validation.jl.html">
    <img src="./media/ast-reward.png"/>
    <img src="./media/ast.png"/>
  </a>
</p>


---
Created and taught by [Robert Moss](https://github.com/mossr).
